README.md, before:

# Simple Lightbox

Simple Lightbox is a minimalist and lightweight image viewer designed for effortless integration into any website. It provides a smooth, responsive lightbox experience with support for single images or galleries.

Built to be intuitive and easy to use, Simple Lightbox lets your images shine without any unnecessary complexity. Just click and enjoy.

## Demo

Visit the Simple Lightbox [homepage](https://sameera-madushan.github.io/Simple-Lightbox) to see demo.

## Installation

All pre-built files needed to use Tom Select can be found in the "dist" folder from each of these sources:              

### [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox)

```bash
npm i @sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox
```

```bash
pnpm add @sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox
```

### jsDelivr

The fastest way to add Simple Lightbox into your project is to just include the js and css from jsDelivr.

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css" />
````
```javascript
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.umd.js"></script>
```

### GitHub

Clone the full repo from GitHub to create custom builds. Use ```npm run build``` to build from source.

## Usage

### 1. UMD Build

```html
<link 
  rel="stylesheet" 
  href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css" 
/>
<script 
  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.umd.js">
</script>

<div class="gallery">
  <img src="./assets/img1.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img2.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img3.jpg">
</div>

<script>
  const lb = new SimpleLightbox.Lightbox('.gallery img', {
    overlayColor: "rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.8)",
    closeButton: true,
    keyboard: true
  });
</script>

```
Use this in browsers without modules. The SimpleLightbox object is globally available.

### 2. ES Module Build

```html
<div class="gallery">
  <img src="./assets/img1.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img2.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img3.jpg">
</div>

<script type="module">
  import { Lightbox } from "@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox";
  import "@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css";

  const lb = new Lightbox('.gallery img', {
    overlayColor: "rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.8)",
    closeButton: true,
    keyboard: true
  });
</script>

```
Use this for modern browsers when using a bundler, or in frameworks like Next.js, Vite, or React. The bundler resolves the package imports and includes the CSS automatically.

### 3. CommonJS Build
```javascript
const { Lightbox } = require("@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox");
require("@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css");

const lb = new Lightbox('.gallery img', {
  overlayColor: "rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.8)",
  closeButton: true,
  keyboard: true
});
```
Use this in Node.js or in a browser with a bundler like Webpack, Parcel, or Browserify. Node itself cannot render the Lightbox, so this is mainly for bundler setups that target browsers.

## Options

| Option              | Type    | Default | Description                                 |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `overlayColor`      | string  | ""      | Background color of the lightbox overlay    |
| `closeButton`       | boolean | true    | Show close button                           |
| `keyboard`          | boolean | true    | Allow keyboard navigation (Esc, Arrow keys) |

## Methods

| Method              | Parameters  | Description                                 |
| ------------------- | -------     | ------------------------------------------- |
| `destroy()`      | none        | Permanently removes the lightbox, clears event listeners, and frees memory. Useful for single-page applications or dynamic content.    |

Commit message:

Update README with navigation option details
Added navigation option to the lightbox configuration.

README.md, after:

# Simple Lightbox

Simple Lightbox is a minimalist and lightweight image viewer designed for effortless integration into any website. It provides a smooth, responsive lightbox experience with support for single images or galleries.

Built to be intuitive and easy to use, Simple Lightbox lets your images shine without any unnecessary complexity. Just click and enjoy.

## Demo

Visit the Simple Lightbox [homepage](https://sameera-madushan.github.io/Simple-Lightbox) to see demo.

## Installation

All pre-built files needed to use Tom Select can be found in the "dist" folder from each of these sources:              

### [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox)

```bash
npm i @sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox
```

```bash
pnpm add @sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox
```

### jsDelivr

The fastest way to add Simple Lightbox into your project is to just include the js and css from jsDelivr.

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css" />
````
```javascript
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.umd.js"></script>
```

### GitHub

Clone the full repo from GitHub to create custom builds. Use ```npm run build``` to build from source.

## Usage

### 1. UMD Build

```html
<link 
  rel="stylesheet" 
  href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css" 
/>
<script 
  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.umd.js">
</script>

<div class="gallery">
  <img src="./assets/img1.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img2.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img3.jpg">
</div>

<script>
  const lb = new SimpleLightbox.Lightbox('.gallery img', {
    overlayColor: "rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.8)",
    closeButton: true,
    keyboard: true
  });
</script>

```
Use this in browsers without modules. The SimpleLightbox object is globally available.

### 2. ES Module Build

```html
<div class="gallery">
  <img src="./assets/img1.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img2.jpg">
  <img src="./assets/img3.jpg">
</div>

<script type="module">
  import { Lightbox } from "@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox";
  import "@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css";

  const lb = new Lightbox('.gallery img', {
    overlayColor: "rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.8)",
    closeButton: true,
    keyboard: true
  });
</script>

```
Use this for modern browsers when using a bundler, or in frameworks like Next.js, Vite, or React. The bundler resolves the package imports and includes the CSS automatically.

### 3. CommonJS Build
```javascript
const { Lightbox } = require("@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox");
require("@sameera_madushan/simple_lightbox/dist/simple_lightbox.css");

const lb = new Lightbox('.gallery img', {
  overlayColor: "rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.8)",
  closeButton: true,
  keyboard: true
});
```
Use this in Node.js or in a browser with a bundler like Webpack, Parcel, or Browserify. Node itself cannot render the Lightbox, so this is mainly for bundler setups that target browsers.

## Options

| Option              | Type    | Default | Description                                 |
| ------------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `overlayColor`      | string  | ""      | Background color of the lightbox overlay    |
| `closeButton`       | boolean | true    | Show close button                           |
| `keyboard`          | boolean | true    | Allow keyboard navigation (Esc, Arrow keys) |
| `navigation`        | boolean | true    | Show previous/next navigation buttons on the lightbox |

## Methods

| Method              | Parameters  | Description                                 |
| ------------------- | -------     | ------------------------------------------- |
| `destroy()`      | none        | Permanently removes the lightbox, clears event listeners, and frees memory. Useful for single-page applications or dynamic content.    |
